DHCP is a protocol that permits dynamic assignment of IP numbers. This replaces the labor-intensive process of IP address management, in which every host is configured with a static IP number assigned to it. DHCP allows the centralization and automation of the IP assignment process. Hosts are leased an IP number for a given amount of time, and this makes the process of managing and administering large networks more efficient. This is good for the network administrator, but makes the security administrator's job more complicated (for example, when some IP number and associated temporary owner have to be chased down for questionable activity).Exactly how many possible IP numbers are there? The exact number is 232 (because the address is comprised of 32 bits), which is a number higher than 4 billion. But, every single IP number is not available; reserved ranges decrease the possible numbers. With the explosive growth of the Internet worldwide, the sad realization has dawned that the IP addresses are being rapidly depleted. What are some remedies for the address depletion?
First, a particular site can use DHCP and assign IP numbers temporarily for the duration of their use. This means that not all hosts will be active at any given time and a smaller pool of possible IP numbers is required. The other remedy is something known as reserved private addresses. The governing body of the Internet, the Internet Address Numbers Authority (IANA), has set aside blocks of IP addresses to be used for internal addresses only. For instance, the 192.168 and 172.16 subnets are to be used for hosts talking within a particular network. This traffic should not leave the site's gateway. This allows a site with an insufficient number of IP addresses to use these Class B network addresses for internal purposes and to save the assigned IP addresses for other purposes.
Okay, go ahead and smirk now; some of you did know your IP address. That is good. However, do you know your host's MAC address by heart? The answer would most likely be "no," because almost no one knows his MAC address. There are several reasons for this, but the primary one is that a 48-bit address with no provisions for human memorization is hard to lock into the brain.
The Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) enables you to resolve the translation of physical MAC addresses to logical IP addresses. ARP is not an IP protocol per se; it is the process of sending an Ethernet frame to all systems on the same network segment. This is known as a broadcast. If a message is a broadcast message, it is sent to all the machines on part of or the entire